README.md, before:

# 🚧 work in progress 🚧

> ### **warning**: People are still working here. The features in this repository may not be completed and bugs can be found.

<br/> 

![NodeJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/node.js-6DA55F?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)
![Webpack](https://img.shields.io/badge/webpack-%238DD6F9.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=webpack&logoColor=black)
![Babel](https://img.shields.io/badge/Babel-F9DC3e?style=for-the-badge&logo=babel&logoColor=black)
![ESLint](https://img.shields.io/badge/ESLint-4B3263?style=for-the-badge&logo=eslint&logoColor=white)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/react-%2320232a.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=%2361DAFB)![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/typescript-%23007ACC.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![Jest](https://img.shields.io/badge/-jest-%23C21325?style=for-the-badge&logo=jest&logoColor=white)
![Testing-Library](https://img.shields.io/badge/-TestingLibrary-%23E33332?style=for-the-badge&logo=testing-library&logoColor=white)
![Styled Components](https://img.shields.io/badge/styled--components-DB7093?style=for-the-badge&logo=styled-components&logoColor=white)
![Nginx](https://img.shields.io/badge/nginx-%23009639.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=nginx&logoColor=white)
![Visual Studio Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Visual%20Studio%20Code-0078d7.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=visual-studio-code&logoColor=white)
![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/git-%23F05033.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white)


# 🔍 React Base

## 🌐 [react-base.netlify.app/](https://react-base.netlify.app/)
![example workflow](https://github.com/luizclr/react-base/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)
[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/3686df98-70c6-43be-bb8b-f5f7b5b238c9/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/react-base/deploys)


## 📖 Tabe of contents

1. [💡 Motivation](#motivation)
    - [Intro](#intro)
    - [Technologies used](#technologies-used)
1. [📋 Requirements](#requirements)
2. [🛠️ Installation and usage](#installation-and-usage)
    - [Using yarn](#using-yarn)
    - [Using Docker](#using-docker)
3. [🗂️ Component Structure (general)](#component-structure-general)
4. [🧑🏻‍💻 Contributing](#contributing)
    - [Branch names](#branch-names)
    - [Commit messages](#commit-messages)

## Motivation

### Intro:

The main objective of this repository is to be used as a template-like to your react projects with many technologies already setted up from scratch.

> Fork this repository and start working over it...

### Technologies used:

- **Language and framework**:
  - React ([react.dev](https://react.dev/))
  - TypeScript ([typescriptlang.org](https://www.typescriptlang.org/))
  - Node.js ([nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/en))
- **Styling**:
  - Styled components ([styled-components.com](https://styled-components.com/))
  - React styled guide ([github.com/luizclr/react-styled-guide](https://github.com/luizclr/react-styled-guide))
- **Build and development**:
  - Webpack ([webpack.js.org](https://webpack.js.org/))
  - Babel ([babeljs.io](https://babeljs.io/))
  - Docker ([docker.com](https://www.docker.com/))
  - Nginx ([nginx.com](https://www.nginx.com/))
- **Linting**:
  - Eslint ([eslint.org](https://eslint.org/))
  - Prettier ([prettier.io](https://prettier.io/))
- **Testing**:
  - Jest ([jestjs.io](https://jestjs.io/))
  - React testing library ([testing-library.com/react-testing-library](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro/))
- **API consuming**
  - Axios ([axios-http.com](https://axios-http.com/docs/intro))
- **CI/CD**:
  - Github Actions ([github.com/features/actions](https://github.com/features/actions))
  - Netlify ([netlify.com](https://www.netlify.com/))
- **Schema Validation**:
  - Zod ([zod.dev](https://zod.dev/))
- **Other tools**:
  - Husky ([typicode.github.io/husky](https://typicode.github.io/husky/))


## Requirements

- NodeJs
- yarn
- nvm

or

- docker
- docker-compose
## Installation and usage

> Create a copy `.env` file from `.env.example` and populate the variables.

```shell
cp .env.example .env
```

### Using yarn

Using `nvm`? change local node version to project's node version on `.nvmrc`.

```shell
nvm install
```

Install dependencies:
```shell
yarn install
```

Run project on development mode:
```shell
yarn dev
```
> Open new browser window on [localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000).

Run unit tests:
```shell
yarn test
```

Run linter:
```shell
yarn lint
```

Build for production:
```shell
yarn build
```

Start server with built code:
```shell
yarn start
```

### Using Docker

create a docker network:
```shell
docker network create react-base
```

build image:
```shell
make build
```

Run project on development mode:
```shell
make up
```
> Open new browser window on [localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000).

stop container:
```shell
make down
```

Run unit tests:
```shell
make test
```

Run linter:
```shell
make lint
```

## Component Structure (general)

```
└─ component
    ├─ component.container.tsx
    ├─ component.schema.ts
    ├─ component.styles.tsx
    ├─ component.tsx
    └─ types.ts
```

## Contributing

Follow the next steps to contribute
### Branch names

Name your branch with a meaningful name that represents the changes you have done.

Examples:

```
chore/updating-changelog
fix/user-authentication
feat/add-card
```

### Commit messages

Use the format {type}({scope}): {message}.

Eg: `feat(login): added remember me`.

See [conventional commit guideline](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).

Commit message:

feat: rename name to isobar

README.md, after:

![NodeJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/node.js-6DA55F?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)
![Webpack](https://img.shields.io/badge/webpack-%238DD6F9.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=webpack&logoColor=black)
![Babel](https://img.shields.io/badge/Babel-F9DC3e?style=for-the-badge&logo=babel&logoColor=black)
![ESLint](https://img.shields.io/badge/ESLint-4B3263?style=for-the-badge&logo=eslint&logoColor=white)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/react-%2320232a.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=%2361DAFB)![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/typescript-%23007ACC.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![Jest](https://img.shields.io/badge/-jest-%23C21325?style=for-the-badge&logo=jest&logoColor=white)
![Testing-Library](https://img.shields.io/badge/-TestingLibrary-%23E33332?style=for-the-badge&logo=testing-library&logoColor=white)
![Styled Components](https://img.shields.io/badge/styled--components-DB7093?style=for-the-badge&logo=styled-components&logoColor=white)
![Nginx](https://img.shields.io/badge/nginx-%23009639.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=nginx&logoColor=white)
![Visual Studio Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Visual%20Studio%20Code-0078d7.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=visual-studio-code&logoColor=white)
![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/git-%23F05033.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white)


# 🔍 Isobar

## 🌐 [isobar-react-app.netlify.app/](https://isobar-react-app.netlify.app/)
![example workflow](https://github.com/luizclr/isobar/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)
[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/3686df98-70c6-43be-bb8b-f5f7b5b238c9/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/isobar-react-app/deploys)


## 📖 Tabe of contents

1. [💡 Motivation](#motivation)
    - [Intro](#intro)
    - [Before starting](#before-starting)
    - [Technologies used](#technologies-used)
1. [📋 Requirements](#requirements)
2. [🛠️ Installation and usage](#installation-and-usage)
    - [Using yarn](#using-yarn)
    - [Using Docker](#using-docker)
3. [🗂️ Component Structure (general)](#component-structure-general)
4. [🧑🏻‍💻 Contributing](#contributing)
    - [Branch names](#branch-names)
    - [Commit messages](#commit-messages)

## Motivation

### Intro:

The main objective of this repository is create a react application to list and search bands.

### Before starting

> This project was created based on [luizclr/react-base](https://github.com/luizclr/react-base) template and using [react-styled-guide](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-styled-guide) package.

> The application is hosted on [isobar-react-app.netlify.app](https://isobar-react-app.netlify.app) and you can access any time you want.

> You must create an `.env` file based on `.env.example` in root folder.

> This application is using a fake authentication API! It means that you don't need to create any other account. You just need to type any fake e-mail but with a valid format and a random string greater or equal to 8 characters as password.
eg: `e-mail: example@email.com, password: 12345678`.

### Technologies used:

- **Language and framework**:
  - React ([react.dev](https://react.dev/))
  - TypeScript ([typescriptlang.org](https://www.typescriptlang.org/))
  - Node.js ([nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/en))
- **Styling**:
  - Styled components ([styled-components.com](https://styled-components.com/))
  - React styled guide ([github.com/luizclr/react-styled-guide](https://github.com/luizclr/react-styled-guide))
- **Build and development**:
  - Webpack ([webpack.js.org](https://webpack.js.org/))
  - Babel ([babeljs.io](https://babeljs.io/))
  - Docker ([docker.com](https://www.docker.com/))
  - Nginx ([nginx.com](https://www.nginx.com/))
- **Linting**:
  - Eslint ([eslint.org](https://eslint.org/))
  - Prettier ([prettier.io](https://prettier.io/))
- **Testing**:
  - Jest ([jestjs.io](https://jestjs.io/))
  - React testing library ([testing-library.com/react-testing-library](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro/))
- **API consuming**
  - Axios ([axios-http.com](https://axios-http.com/docs/intro))
- **CI/CD**:
  - Github Actions ([github.com/features/actions](https://github.com/features/actions))
  - Netlify ([netlify.com](https://www.netlify.com/))
- **Schema Validation**:
  - Zod ([zod.dev](https://zod.dev/))
- **Other tools**:
  - Husky ([typicode.github.io/husky](https://typicode.github.io/husky/))


## Requirements

- NodeJs
- yarn
- nvm

or

- docker
- docker-compose
## Installation and usage

> Create a copy `.env` file from `.env.example` and populate the variables.

```shell
cp .env.example .env
```

### Using yarn

Using `nvm`? change local node version to project's node version on `.nvmrc`.

```shell
nvm install
```

Install dependencies:
```shell
yarn install
```

Run project on development mode:
```shell
yarn dev
```
> Open new browser window on [localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000).

Run unit tests:
```shell
yarn test
```

Run linter:
```shell
yarn lint
```

Build for production:
```shell
yarn build
```

Start server with built code:
```shell
yarn start
```

### Using Docker

create a docker network:
```shell
docker network create isobar
```

build image:
```shell
make build
```

Run project on development mode:
```shell
make up
```
> Open new browser window on [localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000).

stop container:
```shell
make down
```

Run unit tests:
```shell
make test
```

Run linter:
```shell
make lint
```

## Component Structure (general)

```
└─ component
    ├─ component.container.tsx
    ├─ component.schema.ts
    ├─ component.styles.tsx
    ├─ component.tsx
    └─ types.ts
```

## Contributing

Follow the next steps to contribute
### Branch names

Name your branch with a meaningful name that represents the changes you have done.

Examples:

```
chore/updating-changelog
fix/user-authentication
feat/add-card
```

### Commit messages

Use the format {type}({scope}): {message}.

Eg: `feat(login): added remember me`.

See [conventional commit guideline](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).
